1	Origin	Interdisciplinary	"Origin is a 2D platformer in which the goal of the player is to escape from the facility of it’s creation. Players will be able to navigate around obstacles which are a mix of both enemy and platforming challenges.We will be completing the first 4 levels of the game to demonstrate both a proof of concept, design and additionally to begin the first steps towards completion of a full fledged game after graduation.In an article posted by IGN titled “Plot is Highly Over Rated”, Riot Games’ Narrative Lead Tom Abernathy and Microsoft Game Studios’ Design Lead Richard Rouse talked about that extensive research has shown that “plot itself doesn’t resonate with a majority of players.” This is not the first time that discussions have come up on whether or not having a strong plot hinders or helps a game or experience. The problem is defining whether game and story are two distinctly different things and whether they work against each other, or together.We believe that gameplay and plot should be designed to work together seamlessly. Games like Abe’s Oddyssey or Kirby would give you a context through a cutscene and then drop the player into the world and let them figure out the rest of the context as the game progressed. We believe that this same method can be used for the main narrative thread. Through use of design and aesthetics, players should be able to experience a narrative strictly through gameplay, without cut scenes or dialogue. We started development by outlining the basic mechanics and requirements of the game. Then, we moved on to independently developing the code and level designs to further develop the look and feel of Origin. The level designs were drawn on paper before being digitized, and then brought into Unity3D to have pre-programmed collision boxes, enemies, buttons, and other interactive objects placed over the background. The programming made use of Unity’s prefabs, which enabled both the designer and developer to make many adjustments to the levels without programming. The player design was done similarly, with player animations completed outside of Unity, and then imported and integrated into the code."		5		photo1.png	photo2.png2	Diehardest	Computer Science	"A large number of complex encryption algorithms are used to protect information sent across the Internet. All encryption algorithms use a key to begin encrypting data, which causes the encoding process to be different, depending on the key. The key is usually a randomly generated number. Computers are deterministic in nature, making it difficult to truly generate random numbers. Therefore we use Pseudo Random Number Generators (PRNGs) that contain a pattern, but are difficult to predict. If other people were able to guess the next number generated by the PRNG, they would be able to decrypt the encrypted information. A PRNG is an algorithm that uses mathematical formulas or pre-calculated tables to produce sequences of numbers that appear random, using an initialization seed for generating a cryptographic key. PRNGs are used for a large percentage of secure Internet transactions, such as authentication and authorization of healthcare, credit card, banking information or other highly personal information. The first test suite to check whether a given PRNG is sufficiently random---and therefore secure---was the Diehard tests completed in 1995. The security of a PRNG is based on the fact that one cannot guess the next random number that is generated, even when all the previous numbers generated by the number generator are available. The Diehard tests check the randomness of the PRNG by completing 12 tests on the random numbers that were generated. Diehard was updated to the Dieharder testing suite in 2006. Its purpose (like Diehard before it) is to make it easier to test PRNGs for an assortment of purposes in real world, research and cryptography. The researcher who re-wrote the Diehard code expanded the original tests, rewrote the original code and made the code open source, so that anyone could view the code and view the tests, which were being used to verify the randomness of the PRNG. This allowed other people to write additional tests to be run against a PRNG, to ensure that it is random. There are now approximately 25 different tests to check the randomness of a PRNG.Our project was to re-write the Dieharder tests and sample PRNGs as re-entrant safe code, that is code that can be called safely while the same function is already being run by another task, program or function. This will speed up the process of testing the PRNG and make the results more user-friendly. This will fix the time problem with the existing test suite as you will not be limited to running one test at a time, thus speeding up the process and the outputs will require less interpretation to understand."		2			3	Beyond Binary	Communication Design	"Beyond Binary utilizes JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, and Adobe Illustrator to create a new web based form of interactive storytelling. Beyond Binary highlights the internal dilemmas that many feel when facing the realization of non-heteronormality, and non-gender normality. This project tells one girl’s story through her eyes as she comes to the realization that she is genderqueer and not someone’s stereotype of normality."		2			4	Tool Shed Studios Identity & Branding Package	Communication Design	"ChallengeTool Shed Studios is a recording company based in Morgan Hill, CA. Using industry leading tools and equipment, they provide hand-crafted works of art for musicians and bands of all genres. Their previous branding lacked local and national recognition, continuity, and modern design. These missing elements prevented the studio from being recognized by musicians, engineers, and other industry professionals as the leading Bay Area recording studio.SolutionThe Tool Shed Studios Identity & Branding Package includes multiple components, both print and digital. The following projects are used to create a consistent & modern identity for Tool Shed Studios:1. Logo Identity2. Stationery3. Postcard4. Responsive Website5. Motion Graphics VideosBranding Identity GuidelinesDesign Process1. Research2. Sketches3. Development4. Client Critique (& Peer Critique)5. FinalizationsTools• Adobe Creative Suite 6- Photoshop- Bridge- Illustrator- InDesign- Premiere Pro- After Effects- Dreamweaver• HTML5• CSS3• jQuery• Twitter Bootstrap"		4			5	AXYS Graphic Identity	Communication Design	"My name is Matthew Engdall. I am a Communication Design student at CSU Monterey Bay. My emphasis is Visual Design and my advisor is Bobbi Long. This is my Capstone, a yearlong project while working with a non-profit organization to give them a better identity to present to the world.For my Capstone, I worked with Jim Moore, the Executive Director of Klinefelter Syndrome & Associates (KS&A). While working on the project, KS&A changed their name to AXYS because they believed it fit better with what they do in the organization. They help those affected by Klinefelter Syndrome and its variations. The chromosomal syndrome adds an extra X or Y chromosome, depending on the variation. AXYS’ problem was that they weren’t fully recognized by the community as a source for information about Klinefelter Syndrome and its variations. They needed a new identity that could accurately display what their organization does for the community. They are also a non-profit organization and therefore need more members to acquire more profit. They use their profit for conventions and for providing other sources of information about the X & Y chromosomal variations.The solution was to create a new graphic identity to help AXYS get their name out. This was for showing the community what they’re about and how they can help those in need of answers about the variations. This identity included a new logo, stationery, tri-fold brochure, and website design. The software I used to work on this project included the Adobe Creative Cloud (CC). Which includes programs such as Adobe Photoshop, for working with any images I was given, Adobe Illustrator, for the stationery and logo design, and Adobe InDesign, for working on the tri-fold brochure and the website design. The hardware I used was my Mac Book Pro for working on my project and saving it, as well as a back-up hard drive for backing up my files just in case of data loss."		3			6	ToothTalk | A Web Based App for Dental Professionals	Communication Design	"ToothTalk is a web-based education resource and app for dental professionals. The website can be used by dental personnel as a visual aid for patient education. It also serves as a resource for patients between visits to the dentist. The charting app is specifically designed for single operator data entry of periodontal charting. This eliminates the need for a second person to write down pocket depth readings. Hygienists are able to save time and perform full periodontal exams within the allotted appointment time.Since non-diagnosis of periodontal disease leads to unnecessary tooth loss and possible legal action, it is imperative as well as legally required, that a full mouth probing be performed on every patient over the age of 18 at least once per year.ToothTalk makes single operator data entry a reality by providing a software solution scalable to mobile devices capable of touch screen or voice control operation via the Google chrome browser. For noisier environments, touchpad data entry is still possible as a single operator task with the use of a headrest mounted gooseneck clamp, designed to hold cell phones or tablets.This technology naturally lends itself towards implementation with Google Glass. Since the device only became available to our team in March, it is unavailable as an android app at this time. However, it is important to note that the integration of jawbone technology in Glass solves the problem of extraneous noise often heard in a dental office setting. Therefore, further development will be vigorously pursued in the upcoming months. Stay tuned to our website for current updates and additions to our patient education library."	http://toothtalk.us/	2		infographic.png	tooth.png7	Graphic Identity Redesign For Versatech Precision Inc.	Communication Design	"The president of Versatech Precision Inc., Annette Arnold, has requested a redesign of their current logo, logo, stationery, trifold brochure, and website. The problem is that these materials are ten years old and are out of date. This is a problem because customers do not know about the current capacity and skill of the shop and the target audience for this redesign consists of the producers of precision machinery in the greater San Diego area. The solution was to create a new logo, stationery (business cards, letterhead, and envelope), trifold brochure, and website. The logo was redesigned so that is more relevant to a machine shop and makes them stand out from the competition. The stationary has provided updated cards, professional paper for use in house, and an envelope that is unique to the company rather than using plain white envelopes. The trifold was updated with the latest information and visually changed to match the logo and cards. The website was redesigned to fit with the visual aesthetic and also easier to both navigate and read. This made the company stand out from the competition and draw in more customers. The deliverables consist of three versions of the logo, three versions of the stationary, one trifold brochure, and a website. All files will be in PDF format with Indesign files for the stationary, website, and brochure. The website has a semi functional version as well for demonstration. The files for the project have been collected and copied to a CD for final delivery to the client. This design process included: planning, research, sketching, designing, revising, testing and final production. The order of production will go logo, stationary, trifold and finally website. The necessary software for this project was Illustrator CS6, InDesign CS6, Dreamweaver CS6, and Microsoft Word 2007. The final versions of each were print, and web respectively. The needed software consisted of Adobe Creative Suite and Microsoft Office 2003. My skills for this project were obtained through multiple classes at CSUMB focusing on the many aspects of design and for the web design I will need to refresh my skills with online guides."		1			8	V.I.P. - Varietal Improvement Program	Communication Design	"Naturipe is a farmer-owned producer of healthy, good-for-you fresh berries grown by working family farmers. They are dedicated to producing berries that are vibrant, delicious, and nutritious. The varietal improvement program; V.I.P. is an interactive info-graphic that shares their journey and educates the user about what it takes to create the perfect berry. To create the perfect berry, Naturipe has developed an extensive breeding program to improve their many berry varieties. It takes time and a lot of research to cultivate the best-tasting berry. Many steps are taken to ensure success but the information is so vast and complex that there is little information available to the public, and Naturipe wanted to change that. The solution was to develop an easier understanding of Naturipe’s varietal improvement program by utilizing an interactive visual tool to enhance the learning experience. The end result was an interactive info-graphic that represented all the complex information that goes into berry breeding. This allowed the user to interact with the information with a supported intuitive learning environment."		2			9	Tank Me On	Computer Science	"This project will provide Android phone users a turn-based strategy game that can be played against an opponent, an A.I., or both. The game will feature a number of different units each player can deploy as well as territories that can be captured. At the beginning of the player’s turn, they are allotted money based on the number of territories they have captured, the more territories owned, the more money gained. The game is over when either all of an opponent's units are destroyed or territories get captured. If the user chooses to start a game against another person (PvP), they have the option, at any time, to branch that game off to continue the fight against an A.I. Branching a PvP game to play with an A.I. will not affect the original PvP game and when returned to, all units and territories will be just as the player left them before the branching."		5			10	www.SharedCarts.com	Communication Design	www.SharedCarts.com is a proof of concept for an online commerce website integrating social networking and online shopping to create a unique and consumer friendly marketplace. This project will continue to grow and develop over time into a more fully functional online marketplace creating a niche for itself within the competition through it's innovative strategy and user friendly design. The open source content management system Drupal was used to help develop this first stage of the website. Concept and website belong to and developed by Alexander Colin.	http://www.SharedCarts.com	4			11	ALICE	Computer Science	"Safety is an important part of our lives. Many occupations require people to go into dangerous situations. My capstone gathers more information about a dangerous environment before entering it. The company, iRobot, sells a programmable robot called the iRobot Create, which the Computer Science department had in stock and let me use for this project. This iRobot Create has the exact same structure as one of their trademark products, the vacuuming robot, the Roomba. With the iRobot Create, I plan to make a moving platform in which I can mount a robot arm attached with a camera to survey an environment from a distance. With all of these components: iRobot Create, Robotic Arm, Arduino Microcontroller, and camera, I hope to create a singular robot which I have named “ALICE”. This will decrease the risk of human lives being lost to hazardous situations by providing surveillance knowledge."		1			12	Porting iPerf to iOS	Computer Science	"PROBLEM:iPerf is a network testing application that allows the user to testthe speeds of their network. Currently iPerf is available on a fewplatforms including Windows, Mac OSX, Linux, and Android.The current problem is that there is no open-source adaptationof iPerf on iOS. California Public Utilities Commission is in chargeof providing California residents with information about broadbandconnections in their areas, however without an open-source iPerfapplication on the iOS they are unable to test the performance ofiOS devices.SOLUTION:In order to solve this problem iPerf had to be ported to aniOS application. Porting was the only option as it allowedthe application to maintain all of the functionality of theiPerf application. This process involved taking all the sourcefiles from the open-source iPerf application and porting thefiles to the iOS framework. The final product was an iOSapplication that encapsulated the source code to allowintegration with the iOS user interface.METHODOLOGY:In order to have a finished product as well as meet all the deadlinesthe Agile software development methodology was chosen for thisproject. Best known as the Agile cycle it is built on weekly iterationsthat handle small portions of the project. This provided the abilityto slowly address roadblocks as they were encountered along theway. In the end this proved to be the defining factor as problemswere broken down into manageable weekly tasks."		2			13	Ericsson Gamification	Computer Science	"Today in Ericsson they deliver training to over 100,000 employees mainly via online learning. The majority of the training is standardized e-learning and remote training labs. The job roles that they target with the training are many (100s), but there are a few key job roles that they need to prioritize (Sales, Solution Architects, Support Engineers). The problem is that their training is not as engaging and interactive as employees would like. The solution for this project is to create a fun, interactive, and effective game to teach the content that is within the training module. By making the training process into a game, the user will forget they are training and instead enjoy the game. Studies have shown that by using gamification, students actually learn more and also have more fun than traditional teaching methods."		2			14	Cutesy Cupcakes Redesign Website	Communication Design	"OverviewCutesy Cupcake is a family owned bakery in Scotts Valley, California. They put their heart and soul into each cupcake. My goal was to redesign theirwebsite to emphasize their modern look and display delicious cupcakes. Because Cutesy Cupcakes fills all their cupcakes, I wanted to feature this with rollover images. This creates a strong visual presence on the iste that they needed. Problem Statement Cutesy Cupcakes’ original website lacked the proper information architecture. To visually represent the cupcakes, photographs were needed. Along with these issues there was not enough information tounderstand the vision of the company. SolutionWebsite Redesign:- Modern Design- Industry Standards- Visual Appeal- Photography- Roll Over Cupcakes (to see inside & out)"	http://www.cutesycupcakes.com/	3			15	SDN 101	Computer Science	"Our project focuses on Software-Defined Networking, which is a relatively new technology. Cisco currently dominates the field of traditional networking with their closed-source technology, which costs money for hardware and licensing. One of the biggest benefits of SDN is that it’s open-source which means it’s free for anyone to use, and anyone can buy simple off-the-shelf products for much less than it would cost to purchase from Cisco.Our client at Ericsson is one the companies currently working with SDN. They need online training materials to be used by thousands of Ericsson employees worldwide. Current materials are not up to their standards and are not specifically designed for Ericsson’s efforts in the SDN field.Our solution was to learn about SDN and determine efficient ways of presenting the material so that all employees from Ericsson, technical and non-technical, can understand the technology. The training course and accompanying materials had to be up to Ericsson’s standards while also being effective learning tools.We first came up with the necessary topics and material, which would be used throughout the training. We created simple presentations and obtained feedback on drafts from our client. Along the way we also asked our peers, both technical and non-technical, for feedback. We used the feedback from all parties to tweak the slides and once our client was satisfied we added visuals and colors before continuing to the final processing required.We started by reviewing current training courses on Ericsson’s online e-learning systems. We would continuously refer to various courses to make sure we kept the formatting consistent. We initially designed the course presentations using Microsoft PowerPoint and modified the formatting using Ericsson templates and to comply with their rigid design standards. We used course-making software from Articulate that is used for all of Ericsson’s e-learning courses. Finally, we used VirtualBox to model network setups on a computer instead of looking for physical devices for testing and learning."		2			16	learn2interview.com	Communication Design	"The goal of learn2interview.com is to decrease employee turnover rates by helping employers conduct better interviews and hire the right candidate. This website of resources is rich with model questions and templates that are free to use. There is also a training platform with short asynchronous modules on topics like keeping the interview legal, and conducting reference checks. A login is required for the quick courses, and is free to you for reading this description (email jclark@csumb.com for a login).Each of the suggested interview questions includes information to listen for, sample responses, and tips for asking the question. Templates are available for phone screening, an interview agenda, questions to ask during the interview, and conducting a reference check. The training courses all include what, why, and how to perform the skill, plus both ineffective and effective video examples.The combined scope of the project includes over 250 pages and 42 videos. Technologies used include html, css, php, Moodle LMS, Adobe Creative Suite (especially Premier Pro), and Adobe Captivate for the quick courses.With over a decade of experience in corporate education, Jan Clark has built similar staffing and interviewing programs in the past. She was her own client for this project and also the subject matter expert. Special thanks to fellow capstone students for their role as actors on this project: Susan Brown, John Burke, Faviola Fernandez Rochas, and Kate Wilson. http://www.learn2interview.com"	http://www.learn2interview.com	4		learn2interview_screen01.png	learn2interview_screen02.png17	Greenfield Community Science Workshop Graphic Identity Package	Communication Design	"The Greenfield Community Science Workshop, located in Greenfield, CA, is a non-profit organization that enriches the education of local youth by providing a safe, fun and stimulating environment to explore their world through science.COMMUNITY IMPACT THAT THE WORKSHOP HAS• Offers youth of all ages meaningful and life-lasting hands-on science experiences• Takes our youth out of the street and exposes them to mentors and role models • Provides entire families the opportunity to work together on home and school projects • Develops youth’s ability to learn and solve problems by themselves • Teaches our youth conservation and minimal waste principles • Complements the work of our schools • Provides a local hands-on science resource for teachers and local educators • Makes science accessible and relevant to youth at an important time in their personal development The problem was that the workshop needed to promote itself within the community in an effective way.Solution was to create a fun and memorable logo to be applied to web, print and marketing materials in order to promote the Community Science Workshop within Greenfield and other local communities. "	http://hosting.otterlabs.org/jaimeseduardo/GCSW/index.html	2			18	Farmopia	Computer Science	"Farmopia is a web application designed to assist the planners of farmers markets with determining the layout of each vendor's booth. There doesn't exist a web based solution to this problem, and existing software that even comes close to meeting the needs for farmers market planners is prohibitively expensive and requires outdated equipment. Farmopia was developed for use with the Old Monterey Business Association's weekly Tuesday farmers markets in downtown Monterey."		5			19	Josy's Speaking App	Computer Science	"The purpose of this project is to help children with Rett Syndrome to communicate. It is a genetic disorder of the nervous system that causes a regression of language and motor skills. They lack verbal skill and in most cases it affects their ability to use their hands and walk. Children with Rett syndrome are helpless because they are not able to express themselves. They try to communicate with their eyes by looking at the desired object hoping that someone might be able to retrieve the object for them, but most of the times they are not successful simply because people are not patient enough or can not figure out what they want. The solution to the problem was to create a software application that would give children the ability to communicate with a tap of a picture. The application uses images to represent words and they rotate every few seconds. The idea is that as soon as the users see the image they want, they can just tap on the screen and the app will speak for them. The app has a number of features that allow users to customize it based on their needs and condition. The first feature allows users to adjust the speed for the automatic image rotation. The second feature consist of an ON/OFF swipe switch for users that have better hand mobility so they do not have to wait to see every image. The third feature allows users to add existing images from the device’s photo library or take new pictures. In additions users are able to record their own audio and pair it with the images. The fourth feature allows users to delete unwanted images and in the last feature users have the option to have the images dissolve instead move/rotate across the screen."		3			20	Not To Be	Computer Science	"Description:Not To Be is a first person shooter and survival game for the PC. The game fills a niche market missing from the industry; it takes the well defined and enjoyed gameplay of a first person shooter and combines it with an experimental and emotionally driven experience.Story:In Not To Be, the player will be acting as a character named Clone-2501. In the world of Not To Be an evil corporation known as Zombcorp seeks to destroy the human race by unleashing the most horrible genetically engineered monsters imaginable. However, their first attempt to end the world was only semi-successful. Over half the world population was wiped out during the corporation’s first attack on humanity. Currently Zombcorp clones humans to test out their genetically engineered monstrosities, in attempt to find the optimal human extermination tool. The player, Clone-2501, is a mere test subject kept alive for the sole purpose of testing the killing prowess of the latest monstrosity Zombcorp has cooked up. Unlike any of Zombcorps other clones, Clone-2501 has an anomaly that allows him to actually dream. 2501 dreams of freedom, and wishes nothing more than to lay eyes on the outside world. Is it possible for a mere clone who only knows the horrors of the Zombcorp test chambers to hope for more than survival?"		2			21	Harmony at Home Website Redesign	Communication Design	Harmony at Home lacked the appropriate image on their website. It was not attracting people to view the site and donate. I created a single page website and redesigned their logo to show the appropriate brand image for the organization. I created a roll over feature on all the header images that stated facts about what children are facing today. The site now evokes an emotional connection to what the organization does and draws people to donate.	http://eringo4thdesigns.com/dir	3			22	Christopher Caliendo World Music Publishing	Communication Design	"For my capstone, I am upgrading a music publications web store and redeveloping the store to collaborate through a social platform to allow users and musicians connect in a more direct way. Through a custom built content management system PHPFOX, utilizing the adaptation and capabilities of Twitter Bootstrap, and managing the entire operation from an inhouse server built specifically for the website. ChristopherCaliendo.com has hundreds of artists through out the world that purchase and rent music for single instrument pieces to an entire orchestra. The social network and custom store front now allows Christopher Caliendo to connect with his customers and audience in a more personal atmosphere. While allowing for the access to his products in a more direct and clear atmosphere. The social network aspect of the site is to connect the hundreds of artists around the world that are playing the publishers music, allowing individuals to know about coming events that could possibly be within their hometown. Thus creating a symbiotic relationship between the users and the artists. They can share their reviews, comment on their photos, share any and all multimedia material produced from their concerts. The adaptation of the music publisher into the 21st century is going to take the business in a direction never thought to be capable with such limited computer capabilities. Now users will have the capabilities of purchasing sheet music from their tablets and having access digitally to material once difficult to obtain and keep track of. It will simplify the user relationship with the music by connecting them immediately from any point around the world. Through this new interface for the web store and social network. The direction that is being set will take christophercaliendo.com into the next century ready for the technological advancements that await us. Thank you for your time."	http://198.24.179.75/~christua/	5			23	Outbreak	Computer Science	"The purpose of Outbreak is to create a multiplayer game that is easy to learn and get invested in. Many games are hard to get into due to steep learning curves and toxic communities. Outbreak hopes to change that by being simpler while still being competitive. By being simpler than other games, it allows the game to be easy enough that many players can quickly learn how to play and become efficient at playing. By having small intricacies however, the game can be difficult to master and therefore compelling to the more competitive players. In Outbreak two players compete for control of a body by either infecting cells as Sargent Staph or curing them as Lieutenant Leuk in a person’s body. The game plays like a capture point system, when a player goes up to a cell, they will convert it to their color. Converting awards 1 point, and every 10 seconds, more points are awarded based on the level of conversion. When cells are converted they move around the level randomly to make them harder for the other player to convert. Right now the game is only a local two player game. So to truly enjoy the game, you’ll need a friend, or random stranger that you can coerce into playing, nearby. There are two levels to choose from. The stomach is a completely open area where movement is easy an unrestricted. There is also a heart level where it is sectioned off into four areas, with moving valves like a real heart. As each game is a separate instance, you don’t have to play the levels in any particular order, and you don’t even have to play them both if you don’t like one of them. This project was based on a previous class project from CST 320 Intro to Game Design. I worked on it with Paul Seagal, Nick Moradi, and Denise Kelly in the class so they deserve some credit for the idea, coding, and art as well."	http://outbreakthegame.weebly.com	1		OutbreakSide1.png	OutbreakSide2.png24	Design Studio: Integrated Branding Solution	Communication Design	"The Design Studio is a design club at CSUMB. It is composed of visual designers, web designers, coders, and developers. Our capstone project offers the club innovative ways to promote itself and attract new members online.This capstone includes a collection of marketing and communication materials that allows the Design Studio to share information in print and online. The combination of print materials and web materials establish the Design Studio’s presence as a design community at CSUMB. The outcomes of this project include promotional pieces for print and web, as well as several manageable templates for future events and campaigns. Furthermore, this project offers an active and functional website that will serve as a social hub for the design community at CSUMB. The main goal of this project is to give the Design Studio a flexible and strong branding system and visual identity that will work well on print and web platforms for a long period of time. This project is a solution because it provides the club with everything it needs to establish itself on campus. Along with providing the club with the essentials for continuing, this project will provide the club with simple, efficient resources to continue on for many years to come. Other solutions to the problem are to simply create promotional materials and redesign the current website, but this project goes above and beyond that. By designing a new website to be a social networking area for the members it provides another means for students to be a part of the design society at CSUMB. It will give students access to not only their peers, but alumni from CSUMB so that they can get a higher understanding and feedback on work from a professional standpoint. "	http://designstudiomb.com/	4			25	Cooper Store Graphic Identity Package + Website	Communication Design	"The Cooper Store is a historical non-profit store located on Alvarado street in Downtown Monterey. The problem the Cooper Store has is it needs a unique identity, separate from the Monterey State Historic Parks (MSHPA), to differentiate the store as its own entity. These materials are necessary to market and promote their business. The Audience will be Monterey Locals as well as prospective tourists from around the world. The goal is to design a brand identity that will properly and effectively market the Cooper Store and inform the public what it is. Features will include three distinctive logo concepts and stationery systems that the client will choose from. The final logo will be used across various platforms and marketing materials. Additional features include: a Graphic Identity Standards Guide, an “A” frame sidewalk sign for the store, and a website themed in Drupal with an e-commerce component contributed by Kevin Miller. Throughout this process, I will act as the project manager and understand the necessary milestones that will need to be accomplished to finish the project, as well as the possibilities that some of these may not be accomplished by the end of the deadline. This project will require several testing stages to make sure it functions properly and accomplishes its purpose. The final application of the graphic identity will be the design and development of the website. The project will be successful if it successfully markets the Cooper Store. "	http://live-cooper-store.gotpantheon.com/store	3			26	Augmented Reality Otter Vision	Computer Science	"Augmented Reality Otter Vision, or AROV for short, is an android application that implements augmented reality to present clickable nodes, when pressed, display information about the target element. This application is intended to help new students, visitors, and tourists familiarize themselves with the CSUMB campus. As an example, a user can point their mobile device towards building 18 and click on its respective node and learn about the Media Learning Center, such as what departments are housed in that building, people of interest, such as department leads, and general history of the building."	http://www.arovmb.com	3			27	Arxan Licensing System	Computer Science	"My solution is to automate the current licensing process, allowing for a quicker turn around and no room for human error. This will be an online application that replaces the chance of human error, makes a connection between Salesforce and the licensing server and returns the license file to the customer. This will all be in a more timely and efficient manner than is currently done. This way clients will have more control over licensing. In other words, it will be a connection between Salesforce and the licensing server through a web portal.It will allow the customer to do all of the software licensing with almost no human involvement. The connection will be made using Salesforce’s own API, which will be a new experience for me. "		3			28	Database for Prima Games Publishing	Computer Science	"Prima Games Publishing company sells stragegy game guides. I created a centralized database that allows Prima to store crucial information regarding their products. Thus, allowing them to perform at a higher level."	http://hosting.otterlabs.org/frechjosefa/Capstone/index.php	1			29	Fully Autonomous Control for the WaveGlider	Computer Science	"This capstone is in collaboration with the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI) in the Autonomous Systems group. Specifically, Kanna Rajan, Frederic Py, and Thom Maughan will be advising me on my research with the WaveGlider, a water surface vehicle. The vehicle is relatively new at MBARI, and they want to take full advantage of its ability to run for long period of time using generated energy from waves and solar power. My project involved creating a vehicle controller on a Beagleboard-XM for sending various types of commands to control the WaveGlider. I used a formal framework for situated agent deliberation and execution. The framework consists of individual control units, or reactors, that control aspects from the hardware level to the more abstract mission controllers. The framework I used is an autonomous software controller, T-REX (Teleo-Reactive Executive http://www.mbari.org/autonomy/index.htm). MBARI has been using T-REX on their autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) for many years. However, T-REX has not been implemented onto any vehicle similar to the WaveGlider. As a new vehicle, the methods of operating in the ocean are completely different from the AUVs. I designed the vehicle controller to connect and communicate with the central command and controller on the WaveGlider. In order to design the enumeration process and communication protocols, I had to collected serial data from a known payload, decode the binary data, and reverse engineer the process. With the guidance of some documentation and members at Liquid Robotics, I was able to control the WaveGlider’s rudder, directional heading, and send it a route of waypoints. "	https://github.com/pcooksey/TREX-WaveGlider	1			30	Harvest Access	Computer Science	"Harvest Access is a website to connect people to their local farmers markets. It shows what markets are near you, when they are held, and what fresh products they currently have in stock. Harvest Access also shows weekly recipes that explain how you can make use of these fresh local ingredients. This tool will help consumers support their local businesses and bring more people to farmers markets each week. In order to address these problems, Harvest Access was built using Node.Js, Backbone.Js, and MongoDB. The key to Harvest Access' success will be ensuring up-to-date content that is easy for the average person to find and utilize. By bringing people, stand owners, and market organizers together, Harvest Access achieves its goal of making markets more accessible to the consumer."		5			31	HerFitnessConnection.com	Communication Design	"HerFitnessConnection.com is a social networking site that connects women who have a passion for fitness, health and wellness. The site was created with the intention of promoting a healthy body image, with the idea in mind that “strong is greater than skinny.” The site allows users to connect with each other, share their transformation photos, recipes, workout videos, music and more!How many times have you seen it…you open up your latest women’s exercise magazine or go to their website, and you see a tall, skinny, frail-looking model lifting 5-pound dumbbells while balancing on one leg? What if fitness didn’t mean losing weight, constantly comparing your self to others, or staring obsessively at a scale to watch the number decrease? What if fitness meant, a community of women online who supported each other and promoted a healthy body image that exuded strength, fortitude, and the true meaning of health and wellness. That is the goal of HerFitnessConnection.com.HerFitnessConnection.com focuses solely on women, and giving them a safe space to share their passion for fitness, health and wellness. Instead of women looking towards magazines on the shelves with unhealthy body images, they can look towards each other for motivation, and share their fitness journeys through an online forum with a multitude of functions and resources.In order to create the site, various tools were used including the Adobe Suite (Photoshop and Illustrator), a content management system (CMS) called PhpFox, Aptana Studio, web hosting service, and knowledge of various scripting languages. A careful design process was used in order to create different variations for the site, and implement them. Another part of the process, was user testing which resulted in modifications to the project. Perhaps the biggest lessons learned throughout the capstone process were creating a project, and seeing it through with the use of proper time management and adaptation of ideas and methodologies."	http://herfitnessconnection.com	1			32	CalGE Graphic Identity Package	Communication Design	"California Institute for Global Education (CalGE) is a local, non-profit startup organization that provides high quality education opportunities to students and professionals in the United States and abroad. CalGE lacked representation and promoted the organization with a logo that did not effectively communicate what CalGE has to offer. My solution was to make a Graphic Identity Package, including a new logo and applying it to various marketing materials. This will establish recognition for the organization and promote global education."		5			33	Peacock Acres Graphic Identity and Storytelling	Communication Design	"Peacock Acres is a non-profit organization that helps foster children located in Salinas, CA. They have five amazing programs to help children of all ages. They wanted a way to showcase their programs as well as share the amazing stories of their foster youth. I created a 16 page storybook and interactive website to tell five children's stories and inform the community about Peacock Acres. I also created a unified branding package to help their organization look and feel more professional to the community and potential clients."	http://itcdland.csumb.edu/~cwardlow/peacock2/index.html	4		PeacockAcres_picture1.png	PeacockAcres_picture2.png34	The Revived 17-Mile Drive	Communication Design	"My senior project is unique in that I am incorporating multiple mediums of design to develop a fully comprehensive capstone. I wanted to challenge myself and I took on a major task of developing a mobile application for 17-Mile Drive and rebranding the existing collateral for 17-Mile Drive, including the brochure, logo and environmental signage. Creative thinking, a strong design skill set, significant design theory and understanding are what it takes to rebrand an already renowned and popular brand. There is a major problem with the current branding of 17-Mile Drive; it’s simply not appropriately communicating a clear message. By rebranding and developing 17-Mile Drive, I hope to increase traffic and conversion rates on all travelers visiting Pebble Beach and provide our guests with a more interactive and memorable experience."		3		optional_image.jpg	35	HOME	Interdisciplinary	"The City of Monterey is rich in culture and history, yet most do not know of it. HOME: Historic Old Monterey Experience is an educational video game project designed to encourage players to explore and learn the history of Old Monterey while having fun. It depicts the historic environment of the 1850's through the eyes of the working class and the Constitutional Convention that was held in Monterey to determine the union between California and the United States. Once a player finishes the game, it is our intended purpose to have sparked an interest in the player to explore the current City of Monterey with just as much fun as they had exploring the city’s past.We invite you to step back in time and experience Old Monterey for yourself."	http://homecapstone.weebly.com/	4			36	Subconscious Programming	Computer Science	"Programming or coding has started to become to next ""big"" subject to jump into. It is slowly becoming a recommended class to take in college as well as recommended knowledge in the work force. In today’s day and age, almost anything is an application (app) and we are told to play/enjoy it more than understand why it does what it does. That’s where this project comes in handy. Subconscious Programming isn't an ordinary project; it is a creative way of breaking down the barrier the divides the public and programming on the subject matter of coding and what it really is. It shows how both programmers and the public code the same way but with different programming ""languages."" This project has 3 key components: videos, quizzes, and a website. The videos break down the fundamental and basic lessons of programming, making it easy for anyone to understand and pick up. Quizzes are an important part of any school or university’s classes so in order to fully grasp the idea of this project, short quizzes are tied into the videos to better expand on what the objectives of this project. Both these components will be hosted an a website with additional content: real vs. pseudo code, about page, and coding resources. Subconscious Programming not only dares the public to look at programming different, it dares them to learn to code themselves."	http://www.subconsciousprogramming.net/	5			37	Knite Clothing	Communication Design	"Knite is an attractive online store from Watsonville, CA, that promotes a lifestyle of Jorge’s products and services for both men and women. The web store requires no coding knowledge from Jorge’s part, it allows him to effortlessly list items out of stock and add new items and delete them. Users are able to create accounts, share images and ideas on websites blog, and place worry free orders with their debit card or PayPal account. "	http://itcdland.csumb.edu/~ffernandezrocha/capstone	1			38	Firetide Mobility Testing	Computer Science	"Firetide, Inc. is a startup company based out of Campbell, CA. The networking company is constantly improving their technology. Outdoor testing of the new products is done through the mesh network that goes along Inter-Garrison Road. There is also a need to Beta test the mobility ad-hoc network feature; which is a small-scale network that can be quickly setup and taken down. To do this, we used wireless mesh mobility. It is a new, cutting edge technology that uses a combination of radio frequency atennas, mobile/static nodes, and proprietary routing logic in order to provide high-speed internet. As the technology is evolved, testing of these products is necessary. They are in need of more people to aid in testing of firmware updates and the efficiency of their products. To do this, we thoroughly documented the mesh networks here at CSUMB. We included the mobile and backhaul networks, the radio and channel plans, as well as the different types of antennas that were used throughout the mesh network. The purpose of the documentation is to allow Firetide to show future clients what a mesh network looks like so they can see an example environment. For the testing component of our project, we worked with Firetide to determine testing schedules to complete the tests. We used different tools, such as the Radio Analysis Tool and others to best determine the best configuration possible for the mesh network. This was an important component for our project as we had to assist Firetide in completing many tests as they are constantly upgrading their software and machinery. For the ad-hoc network component, we assisted Firetide in the planning and building of an ad-hoc network in an outside environment at our compound at CSUMB. In addition to the outside ad-hoc network, we decided that we wanted to have a demonstration to show people how mesh technology works, and we will have a working demo of a mesh environment on Capstone presentation day."		3			39	Greymatter Cinema	Computer Science	"Greymatter Cinema utilizes software and electroencephalograph data to create a new style of cinematic experience. Electroencephalograph (EEG) data represents the brain and how it is reacting at certain points in time. For example, low beta waves symbolize a relaxed, yet focused, mind.Initial testing was preformed to better understand the information researched about brainwaves. The testing involved asking a series of questions to test subjects as well as asking them questions about films. The data was then analyzed to synthesize an algorithm based on the research.The EEG headsets utilized in this project were not intended to have multiple headsets connected to one computer, because of this an application was created to do this. The application logic is concise. Input and output devices on the computer will be scanned. Once the headset is found, a socket is opened to start allowing the data flow of the EEG headset.After connection, the headset can now output the brainwave data of its wearers. Threading is utilized in collecting the brainwave data in order to speed up the process and have timing be as accurate as possible between the headsets. Once a sample of EEG data is taken to confirm the connection, a movie will start playing. Throughout the film, there are triggers that will collect EEG data from the audience members. The triggers are in the forms of sound and vision that represent possibilities of where the movie can go. The audience EEG data will then discern which things they saw and heard in the film that were most appealing, and finish the film there.To utilize this application, I needed to film a movie as well. The concept is simple, a day in the life of a Monterey citizen. It is a point of view film in which the beach and forests are visually and acoustically represented throughout the film, in order to create references to them that can be scanned for EEG data. The subject of the film walks around Monterey with their final destination dependent on the audience’s brainwave data ."		2			40	Altitude Junkies	Communication Design	"Team Altitude Junkies were in need of a variety of means to help strengthen their presence and credibility within the sport of adventure racing. Their goal is to become an advocate for adventure racing by increasing public awareness and attracting more people to become involved in the sport. We have provided Team Altitude Junkies with a newly designed and developed branding package consisting of a team logo, website, and marketing materials. The logo has been printed on team cycling jerseys, water bottles, and various team equipment and merchandise. Altitude Junkies website has a parallax design that uniquely loads the user all the way at the bottom of the site allowing them to “climb"" up the website. We’ve included a LIVE video feature that enables the team to live stream their races via a GoPro camera. In addition, we’ve designed and printed 5”X5” information cards that will be handed out at each adventure race, training event, and similar sporting event. The card is designed to attract viewers to the website and connect them with Team Altitude Junkies. Please stop by our poster session to view our project. "	http://altitude-junkies.com/	5		AltitudeJunkies.png	41	Integrated Data in a Shell	Communication Design	"Accessing public and civil records in my country of origin (Senegal, West Africa) is still very tedious despite the numerous open source and commercial technology tools made widely available online. The system is archaic as workers have to dig through physical folders to access a specific file while relying on key indexes such as a last name, and reading poor writing sometimes. Let alone the amount of time it takes to access the records, there’s an obvious lack of security and accuracy that makes the data unreliable. I’m convinced that a computerized system backed with a secure database will help ensure security, guarantee accuracy, and eliminate redundant information and duplicate records. This web application designer intends to put in place will bring effective solutions to the issues addressed above, and will facilitate and speed up data access. This application will also protect users’ privacy through authentication, encryption.The project consists of a digitized management system of a civil registration records, a website for informational purposes, and a mobile app that connects an applicant to a county clerk. This technology-based system will help erase duplicate records and reinforce privacy, accuracy and security of the civil registry. These tools will reach out to all the applicants and speed up the process to get legal papers from the legal authority.As we’re living in the digital era, most of the archaic systems put in place for public services are bound to fail and will be incompatible with the new technology tools that shape our global society. Thus, the main goal of this project is to develop a working prototype, a “proof of concept” that can be implemented at first at a small scale, and later expanded and duplicated to even reach those that are victims of the Digital Divide.Implementing a website that teaches locals and tourists about the history, the socio-economic and cultural aspects of a town is a warm way to welcome first time visitors. In addition to this educational aspect, bringing technology to those who desperately need it will be a breakthrough as it’s unprecedented and unexpected. Cutting the time spent by an applicant to obtain a legal paper from months to minutes will be a record. A registry that is hosted on a remote database on a secured server is an effective solution to preserve the integrity of a registry that is currently hand written, stored in a file cabinet, and vulnerable to fire and water damage."	http://ousmangueye.com/maville	4			42	Bright Start Learning Solutions	Communication Design	"Bright Start Learning Solutions, Located in Santa Cruz, CA, o_ers educational therapy services and intensive educational intervention to help children with various learning disabilities. They o_er 1:1 custom solutions to help students develop individualized learning skills based on their strengths. Educational therapy is a beneﬁcial alternative to Special Ed services. Their problem was that there isn’t enough information about the company and educational therapy itself. Many times, people are either unaware of the types of learning services educational therapy offers or simply mistake it for tutoring. Bright start learning solutions needed a website with online resources, re-branding, and stationery to solve their problem. To build the website, I used Drupal 7, which is an open source content management system that allows you to easily organize, manage and publish your content, all with a wide variety of customization. I used Pantheon, a professional cloud-based web platform to develop and host the site. The Adobe Creative Cloud was very useful for the logo the image enhancements and logo and layout designs. Lastly, I used Microsoft Word to design the envelopes, letterhead, and business cards. All of the components of my capstone project contributed in solving Bright Start Learning Solutions problem."	http://dev-bsls.gotpantheon.com/	4			43	Farm Soil Moisture Data Collection	Computer Science	Our task is to create an array of sensors that can be deployed in a crop field and that can collect real time data on the moisture levels of the soil. This data will be able to be automatically upload to a database. The data will then be able to be accessed by our website and mobile application. The data will be viewable to anyone and farmers can then make better decisions when watering their fields conserving water at the same time.		1			44	Kavasch	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	1			45	Quick 'n' Easy Timeline Planner	Computer Science	"The Quick 'n' Easy Timeline Planner is an Android application designed to help students better manage their study time. When it comes to balancing the workloads of different assignments, we are most productive when we work in multiple, short, focused sprints as opposed to long, drawn out, cramming sessions. This app takes advantage of these naturally productive study habits to help us get the most out of the time we spend studying.Problem statementStudents are faced with the responsibility of balancing multiple important tasks which requires efficient time management and good study habits. Often, certain tasks take longer than expected and the things we didn’t get done today get pushed off into tomorrow. When these tasks pile up, they are either forgotten about or busted out last minute right before a deadline.SolutionThe Quick 'n' Easy Timeline Planner offers students a way to plan out a two to three hour timeline where they predefine what tasks they are going to work on and how long they will work on them. After that, the goal is to make as much progress on the task as they can. Working this way has several advantages:minimizing the amount of time wasted stuck on problemsalways making progress on the tasks that are plannedworking for shorter, more focused periods of timeMethodologyThe app design started during the Summer before capstone. In September, I met with Jihan Ejan, the director for The Center for Student Success and received feedback from her about the concept for the app. The first version was published in December. Through February and March I updated the app several times based off of feedback I received from student testers. In April, I published the last version which included layout support for tablets, horizontal screen orientations, a new theme, and improved handling of the Android lifecycle methods."	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jsnider.timelineplanner	1		pic1.jpg	pic2.jpg46	Sterling	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	2			47	Uranga	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	2			48	"Carranza, Diaz"	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	3			49	Flores	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	4			50	Nelson	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	4			51	Rodriguez	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	4			52	Herrera	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	5			53	Malsin	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	5			54	Moore	Interdisciplinary	Fill out the project info form!	https://docs.google.com/a/csumb.edu/forms/d/1QnzE24-0V6imsaK_75OI5A1BtyOTvFCTXdX40x4S6nM/viewform	5			